---
layout: post
title: Deodorization
toc: true 
recipe: false
order: 2
---
Deodorization refers to the removal of the fishy or gamy odor from foods such as meat and seafood, by means including but not limited to adding seasoning and blanching.

Sometimes a little fishy or gamy odor is a flavor source of some foods. Excessive deodorization may cause the food to lose its flavor.

There are various methods of deodorization, In cooking, it's crucial to have the flexibility to choose from various methods.

## Methods

### Adding Seasoning

Adding seasoning to ingredients is the simplest deodorization method. For example, for most dishes using eggs ( for example [Steamed Egg Custard]({% post_url dishes/vegetable_dish/steamed-egg/2013-06-17-steamed-egg %}) or [Tomato And Egg Stir Fry]({% post_url dishes/vegetable_dish/2013-06-16-tomato-eggs %}), salt, cooking wine, and vinegar can be added to the eggs' mixture to deodorize.

In Chinese cuisine, it's common to enhance the flavor of meat dishes by adding spices like peppercorns, star anise, bay leaves, cinnamon, fennel seeds, and chili to the broth for deodorization purposes.

In Chinese cooking, meat dishes are frequently seasoned with a warming blend of spices like  [sichuan peppercorns](https://amzn.to/3QfNr3K){:target="_blank"}, [star anise](https://amzn.to/49TrxtR){:target="_blank"} , bay leaves, cinnamon, fennel seeds, and chilies to not only deodorize the meat but also add layers of aromatic complexity in the broth.

While pre-packaged [hot pot spicy bases](https://amzn.to/4a8JZij){:target="_blank"}  boast an intense aroma, a little goes a long way.  A moderate amount can effectively neutralize any fishiness in meats, allowing the other savory flavors to shine through.

### Dipping Sauce

Some foods still have a strong fishy or gamy odor odor after cooking. Dip sauces can be prepared to mask the odor when eating.
Common dip sauce ingredients include [Chinkiang vinegar](https://amzn.to/3Ugg8P1){:target="_blank"}, soy sauce, sesame oil, doubanjiang ([broad bean paste](https://amzn.to/3xQWodt){:target="_blank"}  ), sweet bean sauce, sesame paste, peanut butter, fermented tofu, salt, garlic, ginger, etc.

The choice of dip sauce combinations varies, and no examples are given here.


### Seasoning the Pot

During the stir frying process, spices such as scallions, ginger, garlic, and dried chili can be used to season the pot. Under the high heat, these ingredients release their volatile compounds, effectively masking any fishiness while infusing the dish with layers of savory and pungent flavors.



### [Blanching]({% post_url tips/learn/2002-02-12-chao-shui %})

Some animal-derived ingredients contain residual blood, if not removed, will cause the cooked dish to have gamy smell.

When blanching start with cold water, the residual blood disperses into the water; as the temperature rises, the protein in the blood coagulates, and the blood that was originally dispersed in the water forms foam floating on the water surface. At this time, simply use a spoon to remove the foam to complete the deodorization process, leaving the remaining clear soup to be used as the soup base for stewing and cooking other dishes.



### Tips


- When blanching, some seasonings such as peppercorns, [star anise](https://amzn.to/49TrxtR){:target="_blank"}, cooking wine, and scallions are often added to the pot to further enhance the deodorization effect.
- Star anise has a strong flavor and should be added in moderation.
- Peppercorns and Sichuan peppercorns are small in size but require a large amount for seasoning. After adding, they may remain in the pot or even in the finished dish. You can wrap them in a piece of gauze to make a seasoning bag or use a food-grade stainless steel seasoning box for easy removal before the dish is served.
