---
layout: post
order: 1
title: Blanching
toc: true 
recipe: false
---

## Concept

Blanching is a cooking technique that involves briefly scalding vegetables in boiling water, then immediately shocking them in cold water or ice water to stop the cooking process.Blanching, in Chinese, pronounced as chāo shuǐ (焯水).


Blanching is an essential technique in cooking, particularly for cold dishes. It significantly influences the color, aroma, and flavor profile, with a particular emphasis on enhancing the dish's visual appeal.

In Chinese cuisine, many vegetables and meats require blanching before cooking.

## Step-by-step Instructions

### Boiling Water Blanching

To blanch food in boiling water, first heat the water in a pot until it reaches a boil. Then, add the raw ingredients to the pot and stir promptly. The blanching time should be brief, ensuring not to overcook.

This technique is primarily employed for plant-based ingredients such as celery, spinach, and lettuce. It's crucial to regulate the heat during blanching; prolonged blanching can result in faded color and loss of crispness or tenderness. Therefore, once added to the pot, promptly remove the ingredients then cool them down with runing ice cold water. 

Blanching helps to partially remove or reduce anti-nutrients in vegetables, such as oxalic acid or lectins.

- Leafy vegetables should be blanched before slicing to avoid excessive loss of nutrients.
- When blanching, ensure the water is wide and the heat is strong, allowing for prompt removal of the raw materials after adding them to the pot. 
- After blanching, promptly cool and dry vegetable ingredients to prevent them from yellowing or becoming overcooked due to residual heat.
- When blanching vegetables, adding a small amount of salad oil and salt in the boiling water can help preserve their vibrant green color.



### Blanching from Cold Water 

Blanching in a cold water pot involves placing the raw materials and cold water into the pot simultaneously. Ensure the water covers the raw materials before bringing it to a boil. This method is utilized to partially cook the raw materials, preparing them for further processing.

Some animal-based ingredients, such as pork belly, beef belly, and tripes, are also blanched in cold water before further processing. Similarly, certain animal ingredients used for soup-making require cold water boiling. Using a hot water Blanching may cause animal proteins to coagulate.
- The water added to the pot should be just enough to submerge the raw materials.
- During the gradual heating process, it's essential to turn the raw materials frequently to ensure even heating and achieve the purpose of blanching.

## Additional Tips

- Blanching can sometimes lead to the loss of certain unstable and soluble nutrients in the raw materials. Water-soluble vitamins in fresh vegetables, in particular, are more susceptible to such losses. Please don't over cooked. 
- Animal and plant-based raw materials should be blanched separately.
- Ingredients with stronger colors and flavors should be blanched separately from those with lighter colors and flavors.
- Additionally, large pieces should be blanched separately from small pieces
- Meat raw materials may change color after blanching in boiling water. Remove them from the water right after the color changes and drain them before proceeding to the next step of cooking.
- After blanching the meat, it's important to wash off any blood foam stains that may have attached to it. Remember to use warm water for washing. Using cold water may cause the meat to absorb the stains due to the heat expansion and contraction.

