---
layout: post
order: 3
title: Salad and cold platters
description: Dishes of various mixtures of raw or cooked ingredients, seasoned with dressing or other ingredients.
toc: true 
recipe: false
---
### Forms of the salad and the cold platter
The salad or cold platter forms can result in the main ingredients and seasonings being either mixed together or served spatially. with the latter case where the seasonings are referred to as dipping sauces.
### Benefit 
* Some salad recipes do not require a heat source when preparing.
* Retain food nutrients to the greatest extent.
* Greatly reduce food preparing time.
* Retain the state of the ingredients.
* Add flavor to tasteless or bland ingredients.
### What Can be Included in the salad or the cold platter
Including but not limited to:
* Main ingredients
* Support ingredients
* Marinating sauces
* Seasonings
## Utensils
Any container can be used, from porcelain jars to food-grade plastic bags.
### Tips 
* Hygiene status of food ingredients should be ensured when process salad or cold platter. 
* To maximize the contact area of the main ingredients, it is recommended to cut, slice, crush, or grind when prepare the salad during cold mixing.
* To minimize splashing while stirring, it's recommended to use a rigid container with a volume at least twice that of all the ingredients.
* To ensure food safety, handle salad ingredients and seasoning ingredients on a clean cutting board separate from handling raw meat or fish.
## Process
### Processing of Sliced Vegetables 
Examples: cabbage, lettuce, bok choy, onion, etc.
- Tear the ingredients into small pieces measuring 4cm * 4cm.
- Cut the ingredients into strips measuring 0.5cm in length. 
  - Or (as an option) use the entire piece of ingredients after cutting off the unused parts.
- Blanching the ingredients before mix with the seasonings.
### Processing of Chunky Vegetables
Examples: potatoes, water chestnuts, cucumbers, potatoes, etc.
- Cut the ingredients into strips measuring 0.5cm * 0.5cm in cross-section.
- Cut the ingredients into slices measuring 4cm * 4cm with a thickness of less than 0.5cm.
- Crush or press the ingredients with a knife (suitable for cucumbers).
- Use the ingredients directly (suitable for ingredients that are already small pieces).
- Blanch the prepared ingredients.
#### Tips
Using a knife to crush the ingredients may cause splashing. You can use a food-grade plastic bag to wrap the ingredients before crushing them.
### Processing of Chunky Meat Dishes 
Examples: fish, jellyfish heads, cooked pork, cooked poultry, etc.
- Cook the ingredients by steaming, baking, or frying.
- Soak the ingredients in cold water for a short time (suitable for seafood).
- Tear the ingredients into strips.
- Slice the ingredients thinly (suitable for cooked pork).
- Cut the ingredients into strips measuring 0.8cm * 0.8cm in cross-section.
- Tear or cut the ingredients into large pieces directly (suitable for whole cooked poultry).
#### Precautions
- Pork and poultry must be fully cooked, completely cooked, and free of any blood.
- Some beef, fish, and seafood can be consumed raw after ensuring their safety.


