---
layout: post
order: 2
title: Stir-Frying / Sautéing
toc: true 
recipe: false
---

## Utensils
- You can use ordinary metal (iron/stainless steel) frying pan or sautéing pans, or non-stick pans.
- It is not recommended to use aluminum containers, for reasons detailed in the section on [food safety]({% post_url tips/learn/2020-02-12-safty %}).

### Tips

* Methods for making a regular pan non-stick:

#### Fry an Egg First Method

* Fry an egg before cooking anything else. After frying, do not clean the pan. When frying the next dish, it will not stick.

#### Hot Pan, Cold Oil Method

* Remember, the pan must be hot before adding oil. First, heat the pan:
  * Put a clean, empty pan on the stove and heat it without any contents to evenly spread the heat and bring it to temperature.
  * Add cold cooking oil and rotate the pan to coat the entire surface with oil (you can rotate it back and forth to evenly distribute the heat).
  * When you see gas coming out of the pan, it means the oil in the pan is hot.
  * Pour out the oil without cleaning the pan.
  * You can repeat steps 2-3 times for a better non-stick effect.
  * Note: If using gas, there may be flames, so be cautious.

#### Hot Pan, Double Oil Method

* First, heat the pan:
  * Place a clean, empty pan on the stove and dry heat it to evenly distribute the heat and warm it up.
  * Add a "small amount of cold cooking oil" and rotate the pan to coat the entire surface with oil (you can rotate it back and forth to evenly distribute the heat).
  * When you see smoke coming out of the pan, it means the oil in the pan is hot.
  * Then continue to add cold oil and start cooking.
  * Note: If using gas, there may be flames, so be cautious.

### Additional Information:

* The goal is to coat the bottom of the pan with oil. All household pans on the market are suitable. Coating the oil will instantly transform it into a non-stick pan.
* Using a non-stick pan to fry food will not stick. The non-stick function of a non-stick pan comes from the coating on its inner wall. But **metal spatulas can scratch the coating. When using a non-stick pan, use wooden or silicone spatulas to avoid damaging the coating.**

### Stir Fry Process

Turn on the heat 
—— Place the pan flat on the heat source and heat it up 
—— Pour oil into the pan with the heat on 
—— Add ingredients, stir-fry
—— Remember to add seasoning before removing from the pan

### Stir Fry / Sauté Tips

* To determine if the pan/oil is hot, you can place your hand flat above the pan to feel the heat; only add ingredients after the oil is hot.
* Before pouring oil into the pan, make sure there is no residual moisture inside the pan. **Water can cause hot oil to splash, leading to danger.**
* Following the previous point, before adding ingredients to the oil pan, they should be drained of moisture (except for egg mixture); similarly, Avoid placing frozen ingredients directly into the oil pan to prevent the risk of hazards from melting ice.


* **If the oil pan catches fire, do not pour water to extinguish the fire.** Doing so will only make the fire worse. When the fire starts, quickly turn off the heat and cover the pan.

