---
layout: post
order: 7
title: Food Safety
toc: true 
recipe: false
---

## Poisoning

The following foods pose a risk of poisoning:

* Unripe green tomatoes
* Undercooked green beans, snap beans, and lima beans
* Sprouted potatoes, yams, and peanuts
* Improperly processed/undercooked water spinach can cause poisoning from colchicine
* Raw soy milk
* Wood ear mushrooms soaked for too long
* Undercooked animal organs
* Unfamiliar mushrooms or mushrooms that are not fully cooked (Generally, the prettier the mushroom, the more dangerous it is.)


Storing and cooking acidic foods in aluminum containers for an extended period of time also poses a risk of poisoning, such as:

* Pickled vegetables
* Dried bamboo shoots
* Tomato sauce
* Lemon juice
* Preserved meats
* Soy sauce and pickles


## Allergies

Common allergenic foods include:

Adults:

* Shrimp, crab, and shellfish
* Peanuts
* Tree nuts
* Fish

Children:

* Peanuts
* Tree nuts
* Eggs
* Milk
* Wheat and soy

## Salmonella Infection

Salmonella is more commonly found in animal-derived foods, and vegetables may also contain salmonella due to fecal contamination.

The following foods pose a risk of salmonella infection:

* Undercooked eggs
* Undercooked meat
* Unpasteurized milk

## Aflatoxin

Aflatoxin is often produced by molds such as Aspergillus flavus and parasitic molds in moldy grains such as rice, beans, and peanuts. It is currently the most potent carcinogen known. It begins to decompose at temperatures above 536°F, so it is generally difficult to destroy its structure with normal heating.

The following foods pose a risk of aflatoxin poisoning:

* Rancid peanuts
* Rancid rice
* Rancid corn

Note that the above foods also include their corresponding processed products, such as rice noodles, cornmeal

## 3-Nitropropionic Acid

3-Nitropropionic acid is produced by the fungus Fusarium solani, which is commonly parasitic in sugarcane and coconut. The main symptoms of poisoning are central nervous system damage. Acute symptoms include vomiting, dizziness, convulsions, lateral deviation of the eyeballs, coma, and even death. The sequelae mainly involve extrapyramidal symptoms, including flexion, torsion, spasms, limb rigidity, and reduced tension at rest. There is currently no specific antidote for this toxin.

The following foods pose a risk of 3-nitropropionic acid poisoning:

* Red sugarcane
* Spoiled coconuts

In addition to visual appearance, odor is also an important criterion for evaluation. Rotting plants often emit a distinctive odor (such as the smell of wine dregs, sourness, etc.). The best way to handle food that smells rotten is to discard it.

## Parasites

Parasites can enter the human body through air, drinking water, food, and direct contact. If parasites enter the human circulatory system, they can attack white blood cells and reach organs such as the lungs and liver or block blood vessels or lymphatic vessels, causing diseases such as liver cirrhosis, portal hypertension, and elephantiasis. If a person is an intermediate host of the pork tapeworm, the parasite can even reach the eyes, heart, and brain, endangering life.

The following foods should be thoroughly cooked to avoid leaving corresponding parasites in the body:

* Snails: Angiostrongylus cantonensis
* Raw fish slices: Clonorchis sinensis
* Eels: Gnathostoma spinigerum
* Frogs: Metacercariae of Echinostoma
* Pork: Taenia solium
* Beef surface (as long as the surface is cooked, it can be eaten): Taenia saginata

## Food Safety Temperature

Sufficiently heating food to a certain temperature and maintaining it for a certain time can reduce the risk of bacterial and parasitic survival to some extent.
Different foods have different temperature requirements, and cooks should use a kitchen thermometer to measure the core temperature of the food.

Temperature should be measured using: kitchen thermometer
Measuring the core temperature of the food

The following are the industry-standard food safety temperatures:

- Pork
      Whole: 160°F
      Ground: 160°F

- Poultry
      Whole: 165°F
      Ground: 165°F
      Whole bird: 185°F

- Beef/Lamb
      Whole:
        Medium-rare: 145°F
        Medium: 160°F
        Well-done: 170°F
      Ground: 160°F

- Eggs: 165°F

- Reheating leftovers: 165°F

