---
layout: post
title:  "Chinese Tea Eggs"
date:   2010-02-19 19:11:06 -0500
description: A quick and nutritious high-protein breakfast with a rich tea aroma and delicious flavor. It takes about 30 minutes to prepare.
categories: [Breakfast,Egg]
tags: [Egg, Breakfast,Traditional Chinese,Appetizer]
prepare_time: "45 minutes"
image:
  path: /assets/img/recipes/tea_eggs.jpg
  alt: Chinese Tea Eggs
---
## Essential Ingredients 

* Egg -8 each (serve for 4 to 6 people as side dish)
* Star anise - 2 each
* Bay leaves - 2 piece
* Cinnamon - a small piece, approximately 3 grams.
* Fennel Seeds - 1/8 tsp
* Crystal Rock sugar - 2 each
* Green tea - 1 1/2 tsp or black tea -1 tsp  
* Light soy sauce - 1 tsp
* Dark soy sauce -1 tsp
* salt - 1/4 tsp 

## Step-by-step Instructions

* Place the eggs in cold water and bring to a boil over high heat. Boil for about 8 minutes until the egg white and yolk are solidified, adjusting the time according to your kitchenware.
* Remove the eggs from the hot water and transfer them to a bowl (or a pot) of cold water. Allow them to cool to room temperature.
* Gently tap each egg against another to create cracks on the shell but do not remove the shell.
* Put the eggs into the pot, add star anise, bay leaves, cinnamon, fennel, rock sugar, black or green tea, light soy sauce, dark soy sauce, and salt.
* Add water until eggs are covered by the liquid.
* After boiling over high heat, turn to medium to low heat and simmer for 30 minutes
* After cooking for 15 minutes over medium heat, remove any residue and let the eggs soak for a while to enhance their flavor.
* Turn off the heat and allow the pot to cool down to room temperature. Then, transfer the soaked eggs to the refrigerator overnight to enhance their flavor. 
* Serve the eggs cold.  

## Tips


If star anise, bay leaves, cinnamon, fennel, crystal rock sugar, etc. are unavailable, you can use [five-spice powder](https://amzn.to/3JBHvOI){:target="_blank"} as a substitute.

